in this video will move on to look at working with the properties of an object.
Properties are essentially the attributes of an object,
however,
toe access some of the properties you'll actually sometimes have to go via a child object.
Let's have a look at how this works when working with object properties.
One of the things you have to think about is the data type for each of those properties.
For example,
let's say we have some text.
We're looking to train some of the attributes clearly if we change in the front name but
dealing with text the name of the front.
What about the size in the drop down?
We only have whole numbers,
but here in this text box,
we can actually type decimals.
So to accommodate those decimals,
the type has to be single rather than integer.
Another thing to bear in mind is the fact that while some properties air applied directly
to the objects,
some properties air applied via a child object.
And in fact,
all of these settings here aren't applied directly to the selection or to the range object
,
which is how you format text.
But they're applied via a child object called Funt.
And that's roughly equivalent to clicking on the launch of button here and bringing up the
font dialogue.
So all of these settings in V.
B.
A.
R.
Accessed as part of this child object called the fund object.
So if I were working with the selection object,
this would be selection dot formed,
not name.
This would be selection dot for dot size.
And then here we have selection dot fund,
not bold or italic going back to the data type.
You'll find that a lot of words settings aren't actually regular data types.
They are simply a series of options,
which are built into a word on which have no meaning in any other context.
For example,
with the underlying style the user chooses one of these preset built in styles on the way
that VB actually allows you to replicate this functionality is to use a special type of
constant called an enumeration or in um,
in Microsoft Word.
These Denham's are all prefixed with the letters W D Vietnam's rules have found in visual
basic.
So if you're using an imam with a V,
be a function,
it will be prefixed with the letters V B.
If you're working with Microsoft Excel Denham's,
there'll be prefixed with the letters X l.
So let's just click on council and let's delete out unwanted text and I'll just click undo
to go back to normal.
Let's go into visual basic editor and write ourselves a macro.
Well,
this call this one object properties,
and I'll just click on the procedure.
View.
Button,
in this example will create a macro,
which creates a new documents suitable for a book.
Let's say we're writing a book in Microsoft.
Word on Let's say the size of the book is six inches by nine inches.
We want tohave double spreads so that we've got a wider margin on the inside finding well.
Then ask the user to enter a title and will pick up the author name from application dot
User Name will then enter the title at a suitable size on Follow that with the author name
.
So let's begin by declaring variables for all of APS.
We'll start with a document.
Variable the dog book six by nine as document to enter text inside the document,
we can either use the selection object or the range object.
Whenever you're faced with that choice,
it should be no contest.
You should always use the range object.
It's much more efficient and leads to much faster and clearer code.
So them orangey book six by nine as range.
But let's create a string variable to hold the title and another one to hold the author.
Now we can populate those four variables,
so we have to object,
variables for which will use the keyword set.
And we have to data Variables,
which will use the keyword Let,
which will simply admit so Set Doc Book six by nine equal to documents Don't Bad and then
set Rong Book six by nine equal to Not Book six by nine Don't range well,
then get the title from the user so testy our title equals input box.
We then need brackets because the input box method is not the only thing on that line,
and although it's slightly overkill,
will follow the best practice off name in all our parameters.
Please enter a title.
Then we'll populate str author from the Application objects application,
not use the name.
So now we're ready to format the document so it's suitable for a book.
Let's just say what we've done so far and then just go back to word for a moment across the
page layout and then paid set up.
I've changed the unit of measurement two inches since we're working in interest.
I'll just remind you how you do that.
Oil options advanced,
and then we scroll down to the display section,
and here you'll find show measurements in units off just transplants interest.
So let's go back to paid set up The things that we want to change in our baby a code are
the four margins,
but we also want tohave this option.
Mary margins.
This is gonna be a boolean value,
isn't it?
It's either true or funnels,
and you'll notice that when I switch it on,
it's the left margin that becomes the inside.
So when I have normal left is one.
And then there are large ins gives me,
um inside in place of left outside in place of right.
So we want the white of the two margins to be the left.
The other things will need Ah,
the with and height.
We want the width of six inches and a height or nine Let's then go back into the visual
basic editor because we'll be changing several parameters within the paint sets up object
We can use the with end with construct.
So with Dr Book six by nine Built,
paid set up and with and then when we tied the dot the auto completion promptness so we
could start with our margins.
I'll start with the top,
and I'm set in.
That 2.75 inches,
trained in the units of measurement has no impact on B B A.
He be a always inspect your margin to be in points.
So if I were simply to enter nor 0.75 that would be no 0.75 points,
which is minute.
So the normal solution to this issue is to use a special function,
which converts whatever units of measurement you want into the required points.
So because we're working on six by nine book,
it's convenient to work in inches.
So let's say we want the top margin to be 1.25 inches.
We can use application Dr Ingest the points and then in parentheses.
We put the measurement in inches,
which of course,
is no 0.75 Now the interest of points method,
as well as being a member of the application object,
is also a member of a special class of objects called Global's.
And that means that you can use it without qualification.
In other words,
you don't have to say applications on interest appoints.
You can simply say,
in just two points in order to check which objects you can use without qualification,
just going to view object browser and looking Global's.
So in Global's you'll see we have in just two points another global that we've used several
times his documents.
So because document,
which in fact is a member of application,
is also a member of Global's,
we don't need to say application dot documents.
We can simply say documents,
so we can now copy this for the other margins.
Then we've got top and then left.
And as we said,
we want left to equate to inside and write equates to outside.
So this was going to be 1.25 Let's say that the inside all left margin will be one,
and then the right and bottom can stay as they are the final thing we have to do regarding
margins is to say,
Don't mirror margins equals True.
This means that on left pages will have the wide margin on the right,
and all right pages will have the wide margin on the left.
Next,
let's think about the size of the document.
So,
Doc,
age height and again we can use interesting points.
So the height is nine.
Do you?
And the with is six.
That's the document set up,
and we have our text sitting in our two variables.
Str title and str author So we can now right to the page.
Let's start by entering the title and let's say we want a couple of blank lines first,
so it's gonna be orangey.
Book six by nine Look,
text equals a couple of returns,
so leave VCR ampersand.
The VCR ampersand.
Our title,
which is str title.
We'll buy another couple of returns and then we conform at all of that.
Let's do the funds don't name.
This is a string.
Let's use impact and then we want the size.
Let's say 36 or 24 perhaps so we repeat in r N g six by nine.
Quite a lot on me So shall we just put another with block in there?
Let's copy that and paste that in and then we can lose these three occurrences.
Just tap these lines end on and with.
If we were doing lots of things to the font object,
it may be tempting to put another with inside this with I hope that that's a legitimate It
does make your coat very difficult to read.
So wouldn't advise ever use in a nested with and in fact,
my own personal preferences to use with very sparingly if a tool.
Okay,
so we've got our title in,
and we're just gonna make it centered.
So this time,
instead of the front object,
we've got a child object called paragraph format and inside that will pine alignment.
And we have our first occurrence of one of these items.
You'll see there will start with W.
D so w D.
And in fact,
the 1st 1 is the one we're after Center.
That's our title.
Sort it out.
We now want to go to the end of the document.
At the moment,
our ranges point into the entire title.
So if we were simply to sort of change the text.
At this point,
we would just overwrite the title with something else.
So we want to do the equivalent of going to the end of the document.
And to do that you use the collapse method.
So it's simply are n g.
Book six by nine which,
of course,
we are already inside,
so we can just say dot collapse with the collapse method.
You then specify the direction so again,
overkill.
But we will put the name of the parameters of first and you'll notice.
There's a slight inconsistency in the visual basic editor in that sometimes you don't get
the list of Vietnam's that you're supposed to get.
When that's the case,
you can,
of course,
look it up.
Just go to the object browser and check.
You can also try and guess the 1st 2 letters are easy enough.
It's gonna be W.
D.
And you may then be tempted to think,
well,
W d starts or W d end which of the two options.
But in fact,
that is too ambiguous because in the context of Microsoft,
word,
end and start are just too general.
So from there,
you can deduce to make it less ambiguous.
You need to say collapse and or collapse start,
and in fact,
that's what it is.
Another tip is,
if you are guessing,
always type it in lower case.
So we type collapse,
end and then presente you'll see that collapse end and changes with the first letter of
each word in upper case.
So that tells us that we've guessed at least a word that exists in V B A.
Which is probably enough,
especially if you sort of half knew it.
You just weren't sure.
Another thing you can do.
If you want to verify one of these before you test your code,
you could just double click on it and shoes definition.
And then if it does exist,
it will just open up the object browser for you and jump specifically to that constant.
Okay,
so now we've got ourselves an insertion points a flashing cursor at the very end of the
document.
So now we want the author we already have our returns in so you could go straight to doc.
Tax equals str author and let's make that slightly smaller.
So let's do not formed not name.
He calls times new Roman not formed start size equals 16.
So I think that's everything we wanted to do.
Let's then save our changes on test.
So let's call that word.
Be three b A Palm picked trouble,
please.
Let's look at the result of documents.
So there we have our impact 24 and then V b A simply looked at whatever was here for user
name.
Place that inside str author And then we've got our returns in there so that all seems to
be working.
Okay,
so these are some of the features related to working with object properties.
In the next video,
we'll move on to look at how you can target and isolate the specific object within a
collection of objects.
Several properties in the word object model and set in directly by way of a child object.
When set in the properties of objects,
value of the appropriate data type must always be supplied as well as regular data types.
Such a string and Boolean object properties can also require constant values known as
immune orations or e nuns.
The nuns related to a word objects beginning with the letters W.
D.
Wiley Nam's relations of baby A begin with the lettuce VB